---
sectionid: createrelease
sectionclass: h2
title: Create a release definition
parent-id: challenge3
---

Azure Pipelines Releases provides the capability to take the results of a build (i.e. a build artifact) and execute them against multiple stages. In this challenge we'll create a multi-stage release pipeline to continuously deploy our templates to two environments.


### Tasks


#### Create a new Release Pipeline

{% collapsible %}
In Azure DevOps, under the Pipelines tab choose Builds. Once selected hit the `+ New` button and choose `New release pipeline`. Pick "start with an empty job"

At this point pick a name for the stage (let's start with "staging").  Also at the top click on "New release pipeline" to change the name.

Once complete click save.

{% endcollapsible %}

#### Select a build artifact to start the pipeline

{% collapsible %}

From the pipeline view, click on "Add an artifact".  We want to choose build as the source type, and then select the appropriate Project and the build pipeline we created in the previous section.  This will ensure we can use the files published in the build as part of our release.

{% endcollapsible %}

#### Add tasks to deploy our Terraform template

From the pipelines view, click on the "Tasks" at the top and then select the large `+` to add a new task to our "Staging" stage.  There are a number of tasks available in the marketplace, but I have found Terraforming (by AKC) to be the most robust. You will need to add tasks which mimic the same workflow we would use on our local machines.


{% collapsible %}

Add and configure the following Tasks once "Terraforming (by AKS) has been added to your Azure DevOps organization"

**Terraform Init**
First select a working directory where your .tf files are stored, you can find them using the `...` button. The state files for Terraform will not persist from release to release so we need to specify a storage account by choosing "Init Storage Backend" and "User AzureRM Provider". If you do not have one you can create one from the Azure Portal.

**Terraform Plan**
First select a working directory where your .tf files are stored, you can find them using the `...` button. As we are generating Azure Resources we need to check the "User AzureRM Provider" which will let us choose which subscription we would like to deploy resources too.

Also choose "Save Plan Result", as we would like to generate an auditable file that will be used to make changes in the future.

**Terraform Apply**
Again, choose the working directory and "User AzureRM Provider". You can also specify the name for the plan file from the previous step, which should be the default of `tfplan`.

{% endcollapsible %}

Once these steps are complete, click save then `+ Release` to create a new release, which will create your resources in Azure.

#### Verify Resource Creation

If the release successfully completes, you should be able to view the new resources from the [Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com)